# 4:Mutating (changing) a Database

We cover a lot in this tutorial. As such, I do not suggest you complete it in one sitting. 

This tutorial closes the loop of database operations: I show you how to create, update and delete rooms. Furthermore,  I  explore some advanced array operations that allow us to filter data elegantly. 

[**Before you start the tutorial**, follow the getting started steps below](#getting-started)

As this is a fairly long tutorial, I've broken it down into chunks. 

## Part 1: Overview (everyone should watch this)

<iframe src="https://solent.cloud.panopto.eu/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=3849d01e-a7be-4916-a3ed-af3f009fc88d&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>


## Part 2: Array Filtering (recommended, but not essential)

In this part of the tutorial, I look at how we can use JavaScript array filtering to get the room filter working. This is fairly advanced; however, it shows off the power of JavaScript.

<iframe src="https://solent.cloud.panopto.eu/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=ca67167c-9c44-4696-ae38-af3f009fc8cd&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>


## Part 3: Mutating a Database (everyone should watch this)

In this part of the tutorial, I look how we can change the values in a database. 

<iframe src="https://solent.cloud.panopto.eu/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=20475ad2-afe3-4589-a732-af3f009fc910&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>

## Getting Started 

- `git clone --branch tutorial-4-starter-code https://github.com/joeappleton18/solent-room-finder.git tutorial-4`
- Navigate into the tutorial-4 folder
- Install the dependencies: `npm install`

### Setting up the database

- Get the connection string of your MongoDB server.In the case of MongoDB Atlas, it should be a string like this (notice how we've added rooms as the database name):

`mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@my-project-abc123.mongodb.net/rooms?retryWrites=true&w=majority`

- If you are running MongoDB locally, it will look something like this:

`mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017/rooms`

- Copy the `.env.local.example` file in this directory to .env.local, which will be ignored by Git)

  - Set your `MONGODB_URI` with the the MongoDB connection string.

- Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

- Run the development server: `npm run dev`

- Check everything is working by running our tests: `npm run cypress:run`